.. http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Project+Ideas WRITING-165

.. _project-ideas-for-contributors:

==============================
Project Ideas for Contributors
==============================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

If you're interested in getting involved in the MongoDB community (or
the open source community in general) a great way to do so is by
starting or contributing to a MongoDB related project. Here we've
listed some project ideas for you to get started on. For some of these
ideas projects are already underway, and for others nothing (that we
know of) has been started yet.

10gen Labs 
----------

Contribute to a project in 10gen labs, 10gen's incubator for open
source MongoDB tools. There are a number of projects that can use the
community's input

- `Mongo-connecter`_

- `Storage-viz`_ for visualizing MongoDB storage and indexes.

- `Edda`_ a log visualizer for MongoDB.

- `Sleepy Mongoose`_ A REST Interface for MongoDB

.. _`Mongo-connecter`: https://github.com/10gen-labs/mongo-connector

.. _`Storage-viz`: https://github.com/10gen-labs/storage-viz

.. _`Edda`: https://github.com/10gen-labs/edda

.. _`Sleepy Mongoose`: https://github.com/10gen-labs/sleepy.mongoose

A GUI
-----

One feature that is often requested for MongoDB is a GUI, much like
CouchDB's futon or phpMyAdmin. There are a couple of projects working
on this sort of thing that are worth checking out:

- `Futon 4 Mongo`_

- :ref:`HTTP Interface <http-interface>`

.. TODO replace with real reference link when wiki page is ported

.. _`Futon 4 Mongo`: http://github.com/sbellity/futon4mongo

We've also started to :ref:`spec out
<mongodb-future-admin-ui-requirements>` the features that a tool like
this should provide.

A REST Interface
-----------------

There are a number of requests for a REST API for MongoDB. There are a
number of existing projects out there that could use contributors

- `Sleepy Mongoose`_ a full-feature HTTP Interface for MongoDB

- `DrowsyDromedary`_ is a REST layer for MongoDB based on Ruby.

- `MongoDB Rest (Node.js)`_ is an alpha REST interface to MongoDB, which
  uses the `MongoDB Node Native driver`_.

- `Mongodb Java REST server`_ based on `Jetty`_.

.. _`Sleepy Mongoose`: https://github.com/10gen-labs/sleepy.mongoose

.. _`DrowsyDromedary`: https://github.com/zuk/DrowsyDromedary

.. _`MongoDB Rest (Node.js)`: http://github.com/tdegrunt/mongodb-rest

.. _`MongoDB Node Native driver`: http://github.com/christkv/node-mongodb-native

.. _`Mongodb Java REST server`: https://sites.google.com/site/mongodbjavarestserver/home

.. _`Jetty`: http://www.eclipse.org/jetty/

Try MongoDB!
------------

It would be neat to have a web version of the MongoDB Shell that
allowed users to interact with a real MongoDB instance (for doing the
tutorial, etc). A project that does something similar (using a basic
MongoDB emulator) is here:

`<http://github.com/banker/mongulator>`_

`Mongoly`_ is another great interactive tutorial by Karl Seguin

.. _`Mongoly`: http://tutorial.mongly.com/tutorial/index

Real-time Full Text Search Integration
--------------------------------------

It would be interesting to try to nicely integrate a search backend
like Xapian, Lucene or Sphinx with MongoDB. One idea would be to use
MongoDB's oplog (which is used for master-slave replication) to keep
the search engine up to date.

GridFS FUSE
-----------

There is a project working towards creating a FUSE filesystem on top of
GridFS - something like this would create a bunch of interesting
potential uses for MongoDB and GridFS:

`<http://github.com/mikejs/gridfs-fuse>`_

Framework Adaptors
------------------

Working towards adding MongoDB support to major web frameworks is a
great project, and work has been started on this for a variety of
different frameworks (please use google to find out if work has already
been started for your favorite framework).

Logging and Session Adaptors
----------------------------

MongoDB works great for storing logs and session information. There are
a couple of projects working on supporting this use case directly.

- Logging: 

  - `Zend`_
  - `Python`_
  - `Rails`_

.. _`Zend`: http://raphaelstolt.blogspot.com/2009/09/logging-to-mongodb-and-accessing-log.html

.. _`Python`: http://github.com/andreisavu/mongodb-log

.. _`Rails`: http://github.com/peburrows/mongo_db_logger

- Sessions: 

  - `web.py`_

  - `Beaker`_

.. _`web.py`: http://github.com/whilefalse/webpy-mongodb-sessions

.. _`Beaker`: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/mongodb_beaker

Package Managers
----------------

Add support for installing MongoDB with your favorite package manager
and let us know!

Locale-aware collation / sorting
--------------------------------

MongoDB doesn't yet know how to sort query results in a
locale-sensitive way.Â  If you can think up a good way to do it and
implement it, we'd like to know!

Drivers
-------

If you use an esoteric/new/awesome programming language write a driver
to support MongoDB! Again, check google to see what people have started
for various languages.

Some that might be nice:

- Scheme (probably starting with PLT)

- GNU R

- Visual Basic

- Lisp (e.g, Common Lisp)

- Delphi

- Falcon

Write a killer app that uses MongoDB as the persistence layer!
--------------------------------------------------------------
